# Fancy_Goods
“You’re always so full of ideas. Give me an idea for a Christmas present, not one of the ordinary things you find in the usual shops.”

How was I to set about it? Well, first of all I had to get an idea of what my lady friend meant by ordinary things. I did a tour of the gift shops that sell fancy goods, just to see what they had in stock.

In one shop I see a brass boot, size 25 (approx. ). “I’ll have a pair of those,” I say. “We have only one, sir” ”What can I do with one boot?” ”It is not a boot to wear on the foot, sir. It is a boot to keep umbrellas in,” the assistant explains, smiling patiently as one would at a madman. I am greatly embarrassed by this gaffe, and leave the shop at once, nearly tripping over a marble cat decorated with floral reliefs and serving as a doorstop. I am beginning to learn.

As I stand indecisively outside the shop my glance happens to light on a copper frying-pan hanging on the wall. It is not meant to be used as a frying-pan, of course, because it has clock-hands attached and numbers from one to twelve. Ah… then it is a clock. It is in the shape of a frying-pan because it is for the kitchen. And a clock for the lavatory?

It is a cool evening and the bright shop-windows spill gold into the street. Here we have a pair of brushes shaped like cats and held together at the sides by magnets. An ashtray in the shape of a woman’s hand, and one of those old-fashioned irons that you put embers in: but this one is made of china, is embellished with forget-me-nots and is full of chocolates. And here is a board for cutting salami and ham on, shaped like a pig. A corkscrew like a pig’s tail with a brass pig for a handle. A potty for a child, in the shape of a ducking (it seems that children love to take it out on ducklings). A lamp like a bunch of flowers, a lamp like a bunch of grapes. A pipe like a shoe, like a bull’s head, like a revolver, like a corn-cob, like  a…. A moneybox in the shape of an apple, a pear, a shoe. A bottle like a cottage, a cottage like a bottle. An ashtray in the form of a little house with a chimney: when you poke your cigarette in at the front door, smoke comes out of the chimney.

A photo-frame like a pocket watch, scissors, like a flamingo, a salt-cellar like a wheelbarrow with a spoon like a shovel. A dish for fish shaped like a fish, a dish for pig’s foot shaped like a pig’s foot, a tureen for tomato soup shaped like soup. A hammer like a fish, a fish like a hammer, a cheese-dish in the form of a sitting hen, a thermos flask for ice, shaped like a football.

A dish for fruit in the shape of a leaf, an old wooden cradle for use as a magazine rack…

These are certainly not objects produced by designers, for designers do not have such raging imaginations. They confine themselves to making candlesticks that look like candlesticks. But look, what have we here? An antique gun hung on the wall as a hatstand, with a row of hooks soldered along the barrel. Or an enormous key with smaller hooks, for hanging real keys on. A cigarette lighter in the shape of a revolver, a revolver in the shape of a cigarette lighter. An umbrella like a pagoda, a table-lamp made of a clarinet (likewise, a trumpet), with a lampshade of shert-music: take your choice, _The Barber of Seville_ or _The Magic Flute_. A pair of pretty slippers like rabbits, a beer mug like a boot. A miniature Tyrolese hat, in bronze as a paperweight. A priest’s hats as a cigarette box, a bishop’s hat as a cigar box, a paper-knife in the shape of a sword, a barometer in the shape of a rudder, a clock also disguised as a rudder, a blotting pad like a steam-roller, a wrought iron cigarette box in the shape of a vintage car, a bar for dispensing drinks from in the sitting-room, in the shape of a safe. An iron suit of armour that is really a fridge, an ashtray in the shape of a rapier, its point planted in the ground. A book-bottle, a statue-bottle, a corn-cob bottle, a bottle-candlestick, a ship in a bottle, even some wine in a bottle (some wine in a book, some wine in a statue, some wine in a corn-bob), a bottle of liqueur with a sprig of rue inside it. A huge clothes-peg made of mahogany and brass, for use as a paperclip. A stone made of foam rubber for use as a paperweight for airmail paper. An enormous walnut-shell as a bowl for walnuts. An enormous shell as a bowl for shellfish, an enormous spoon for brining coffee-spoons to the table in, a miniature funeral urn, in marble, for use as an ashtray.

By this time my head is spinning and I don’t know for sure whether what i am seeing is really there. I don’t know whether to put my cigarette ash into someone’s hand or to screw the light-bulb into the soup-tureen. What on earth can I say to my lady friend? If we have gone this far at Christmas, where will we be at carnival time?

However, I do say something. I say, let’s buy a pipe that is really a pipe, let’s fill it with real tobacco, light a match that looks like a match and works like a match, and apply it to the pipe-pipe. Let us have a cup of coffee in a cuplike cup on a table-table near our chairlike chair, and read a good book-book. And my friend gets all upset. She climbs into her Mini tarted up to look like a Cadillac and roars off into the mist, sounding like a Ferrari.

By Bruno Munari
Translated by Patrick Creagh
__Design as Art__ p.152-155

